# Sound Project
## Hear Our Spirit

Github repository: https://github.com/Soojin-Lee0819/soundproject2 
Website:https://soojin-lee0819.github.io/soundproject2/

### Project Description:

The project invites viewers to experience what it is like to live on campus during this time of COVID-19. This experience is presented through a creative music video that replicates 'A day in my life' of myself who are currently on campus, through the medium of sound. The music video is made in the 2020 Fall semester, amid a global pandemic, where a lot of students are hoping to come back to the campus but are restricted from traveling for many different reasons. Therefore, the idea behind this project was to provide a platform for returning students (who couldn't return) to go back to the times when they were on campus and for Freshmen students (who never had a chance to live on campus)to have an indirect experience of life on campus. Without verbally explaining how life on the campus is like, the music video hoped to grasp a sense of what a typical life would be like on campus. By adding daily routines like brushing teeth, going to the gym, eating at D2, we wanted to convey how relatively normal the day to day life is on campus is, but of course, with some new "norms" and adjustments. By sharing new "norms", through sounds, such as daily symptom checks and thermometer screenings, apart from providing a nostalgic experience, we also wanted to inform them of new health guidelines and protocols that all students need to follow. Such information will help students to make better decisions for their next semester and help them to be mentally be prepared for what to expect on campus if they choose to return. 


The story is about two friends talking about life in NYUAD during COVID times, where a female student, myself tells a day of my life to another friend. This music video consists of two parts; the conversation-like dialogue between the two students and the flashback part of a day in my life where different sounds are layered to make a musical piece. Although it is a sound project, where sound leads the main narrative, image plays a prominent part to support the sound. Creatively composed video visually supports viewers to understand the audio narrative that moves space and time.  

The music video is located on a website dedicated to the music video. The website consists of three pages in total; the main homepage, music video page, and learn more page. The landing page briefly introduces the project, intentions, and target audience. It also provides a link to visit the NYUAD website to learn more about the school and the most-updated guidelines. The second page, the music video page essentially allows viewers to listen to and watch music videos. We refrained from adding any text on this page to minimize distractions from viewers so that they can focus on the sound. Finally, the Learn more page consists of some highly requested questions that viewers might be wondering about in regards to life on campus.  

### Process:

The project started with an idea of wanting to share what it is like to live on campus during the time of COVID. How we would creatively share this was then discussed, and ideas such as recording ASMR, interviewing students were pitched. After brainstorming, we decided to record sounds that we encounter in daily life and compose them to make a musical piece. Highlighting the essence of the sound that evokes strong emotion and effectively captures the sense of place, we challenged ourselves to refrain from linguistically explaining what it is like to live on campus, instead, we let sounds to tell the story by itself.

I then started to walk around campus and collecting rhythmic sounds that I encounter in my daily life that can be used as a part of the music. Sounds such as the gate opening sound or the thermometer clicks are collected. Although individual sounds may not mean much, when they are placed next to each other, they collaboratively create a sense of place and effectively captures the essence of NYUAD. Sounds were recorded on an iPhone voice memo application. Although it would have been ideal to use a microphone to capture the sound, since we didn't have an access to it, we just recorded sound and video separately to maximize the quality of sound. Once I have collected all the sounds, Rashid and I started recording foley sounds and dialogue. Before we start recording dialogue, we first collected a room tone sound. Then, we unplugged all the electronic devices and turned off the AC to minimize the background noise. Foley sounds such as cleaning up bottles, opening wardrobes were recorded individually, then it was later at the editing stage where all these individual sounds were layered together to harmoniously create a mise-en-scene of the scene.

The software called audacity was used for a sound-design. Especially for the flashback rhythmic music part, each collected sounds had to be specially trimmed, manipulated, and edited to make it fit into the rhythm. When two separate recordings are placed next to each other, two tracks were cross-faded to connect them smoothly and I used a pencil Tool to make further adjustments. Since Rashid and I were the only people recording, for the voice of several characters, many effects features like lowing pitch to manipulate the voice and impersonate different people. 

For videos, I used Davinci Resolve 16 and a video editing application called VLLO to make a video that visually supports the sound. The filmed footage is edited in a way that best captures the emotional aspect of the sound. The images are ideologically and metaphorically understood, rather than as a representation of strict realism. Several filters were used to differentiate flashbacks from the dialogue, and numbers of transitions and animations were used to elevate and represent the corresponding emotions and happenings of the sound. 

Once we finished the first draft of the music video, we had a chance to get feedback from Kristen, the professor, and peer colleagues. Based on their feedback and suggestions, we improved greatly. We revisited the narrative and made adjustments to ensure it was comprehensive and we also got rid of all the cartoonish graphic representation of scenes. Instead, we took more videos to abstractly represent the "unrepresentable" scenes such as party scenes. The song part was also stretched and curated so that what was originally in the conversation style sounds of flashback were edited into music. With this flashback transition, the narrative became much more comprehensible. 

For the website, we focused on making it look simple and professional so that it can look like a reliable source of information. Since we are addressing life on campus from the NYUAD student perspective for the students of NYUAD, we wanted it to look like this website to be part of the main NYUAD website. Therefore, we strategically located the NYUAD logo on the top left corner, the image of the Highline as a background, and made buttons to change its color to purple when hovered; the color of NYUAD. Since a lot of movements and interactivity are already going on within the music video itself, we made sure the website is simple with minimum animations or graphic designs. For the interactivity part, we added a hover effect with an "ease-in" transition on the "learn more" page, where users can hover on the box to find out answers to the questions.   


### Reflection/Evaluation:

Overall I had a lot of fun throughout the process, especially when recording sounds and editing sounds using audacity. There were many trials and errors during the process with subsequent growth. For example, we had to re-record sounds many times because the uncontrollable external noises were made, such as a person entering the room or the AC started to turn on unexpectedly. One of the challenges was that since we are narrating a story that moves time and space, we found out that listeners find it difficult to comprehend the narrative. Therefore, we carefully had to revisit our work and make adjustments with a consideration of how the listeners, who first listen to the story would make an understanding of this work. Since we already knew the story inside out, what made sense for us without a doubt, was not always clear for the audience who listen to the story for the first time. It was a good skill that I have learned as an artist, where I make sure what I encode in the artwork is decoded well by the listeners.  One thing that I would want to improve on is the website. Some of the positionings could be improved. For instance, we found difficulties in positioning hover text in the middle of the box. Therefore, we had to put extra lines in the text to manually position the text. Since I made a project that focuses on the sound piece itself, for the next video project,  I wish to make a video project that is more interactive, where the website is not a platform to hold the piece but invites users to take part in the process of making video and be part of the artist themselves. 
